README.md, before:

# Create Prisma App

To install:

```
npm i -g create-prisma-app
create-prisma-app MyPrismaApp
```

dev environment quick start:

```
1. Window user can skip step 1; Mac user please open ./config.dev.env, change the value of PSQL_HOST to docker.for.mac.localhost
2. Run this in console: npm run dev-setup
```

test environment quick start:

```
1. in ./config.test.env, change the value of PSQL_HOST to some database of third party(aws or heroku)
2. Run this in console: npm run test-setup

note that test-start, test-deploy and test-schema doesn't work outside the of the container(remember unlike dev environment, node is running in container)
```

prod environment quick start:

```
PRISMA_ENDPOINT=http://prisma:41462
PRISMA_DATAMODEL=datamodel-prod.graphql
PRISMA_SECRET=password123
PRISMA_SCHEMA=dist/prodSchema/prisma.graphql
CLIENT_SCHEMA=dist/prodSchema/client.graphql
OUTPUT_FOLDER=../src/prodSchema
JWT_SECRET=thisisasecret
NODE_PORT=4000
NODE_ENDPOINT=http://localhost:4000

# docker variable
PRISMA_PORT=41462
PSQL_HOST=mydb.cxdlzqr3bko8.ap-southeast-1.rds.amazonaws.com
PSQL_PORT=5432
PSQL_DATABASE=mydb
PSQL_USER=tylim
PSQL_PASSWORD=1234567890
PSQL_SSL=true
COMMAND=npm run prod-start

use this for the prod.env, why I didnt upload this? Because you shouldn't upload prod.env to github, uploading test.env is also arguable. Prod is very similar to test, so the instructions also similar.

1. in ./config.prod.env, change the value of PSQL_HOST to some database of third party(aws or heroku)
2. Run this in console: npm run prod-setup

note that prod-start, prod-deploy and prod-schema doesn't work outside the of the container(remember unlike dev environment, node is running in container)
```

jest environment quick start:

```
1. in ./config/jest.env, change the value of PRISMA_ENDPOINT to match dev or test.

important: do not run jest on prod prisma endpoint because jest delete database in the beginning of run!

note: I am yet to polish jest logic, as you can see currently it connects to prisma endpoint not node endpoint, but you can still use it without problem.
```

## Intro

This package is aim to get you up and running in different environments, in general there are 4 types of environments:

1. dev(dev.env)  
   Ideally dev is an environment that allow us to code and experimenting our thing even without internet. It is an environment that we can carry on planning and creating without relying third party service such as server on AWS, instead we should have a server that we can toy with anytime in our computer.

2. prod(prod.env)  
   Prod is the environment where we want to treat our data, data model and configuration delicately. Imagine if we accidentally deploy our dev data and configuration into prod, that would be hell unleashed.For some cases we can mix up test and dev environments and that is tolerable, but production environment MUST has it own space, this is not an option.

3. test(test.env)  
   Ideally the test environment should be as similar as prod environment as possible so that we can expect the same behavior when we deploy it, do not confuse this with jest.

4. jest(jest.env)  
   Do not confuse this with test, jest has its own environment variables that points to test environment from outside world, in short jest are interaction from real world upon this test environment.

To summarize it:

| Environment | Prisma                      | Node                        | Database(PSQL)     | Justification                                                 |
| ----------- | --------------------------- | --------------------------- | ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------- |
| dev         | dockerized locally          | local                       | dockerized locally | for fast development                                          |
| prod        | dockerized in prod server 1 | dockerized in prod server 1 | prod server 2      | for easy deployment in production                             |
| test        | dockerized in test server 1 | dockerized in test server 1 | test server 2      | to mimic production environment with free to torture database |
| jest        | none                        | none                        | none               | to interact with test environment                             |

As we can see we have 4 environments and setting up all the environments can be very time consuming even for experienced member who just join the team, let alone the beginner. To run the environments, we need to install all kind of software and configuring all of them, imagine all kinds of thing we need to do just to get the code run.

If the environments are too complicated to setup, it take our attention away from REAL engineering problem, I remember in my first job, we spent 80% of the time just to pick up the tool (if you are curious, it was Siemens software and Siemens is infamous for not so user friendly software).

Hence this motivates me to create and maintain well structured boilerplate, so that any newcomer that join the project can work on the code with minimum configuration. When we creating a boilerplate, alway put the team in mind, even if we are working alone, we also should do this because boilerplate that is convenient for a team definitely convenient for one man army too.

Docker refuse to add key that allows user to run a service or not because the developers want to uphold some silly engineering principle even though it is a highly requested feature https://github.com/docker/compose/issues/1896, I have no choice but to create a seperate docker yml file for dev. Yes we can use --scale service=0 command, but that doesn't stop docker from building the service and building Node every time is not ideal for dev.

## Objective

The objective of this boilerplate is you should able to run it with just installing docker and use npm script to run commands.

Prerequisite knowledge:

1. Graphql
2. Prisma library

What you need to have:

1. Docker
2. Kitematic(optional): Docker GUI\*
3. TeamSQL(optional): SQL database GUI\*
4. A PSQL database hosted online(for non-dev environment with default setting)\*\*

\*With or without Kitematic and TeamSQL, we still able to get the app running, but I strongly recommend them because they are powerful utilities  
\*\*I was unable to docker-compose PSQL and Prisma in Ubuntu(but no problem in Window and Mac). Hence to satisfy all three platforms, I decided to exclude PSQL from docker and this is actually a better decision because having database on the other server add security.

Here is instruction to get running:

1. to get dev up and run: npm run dev-setup\*

with just one script, our dev environment graphql playground automatically open in browser up and running, waiting for us to explore! We can also npm run test-setup to launch test-environment, it is a docker composed of both Node and Prisma server(wait a little and refresh browser if you see empty page). We need to create the prod.env ourself, it can be easily done by using test.env which is provided as template, please refer to ./config/dev.env for guidelines.

\*for Mac user, please change the value of PSQL_HOST in ./config/dev.env to docker.for.mac.localhost, do note that there is no similar support for Ubuntu(why you want to run dev in Ubuntu anyway?).

This boilerplate also comes with:

1. commit hooked prettier styling
2. Babel env preset
3. basic data model
4. basic schema
5. basic api call
6. basic test
7. basic CircleCI configuration file
8. basic JWT authentication

- npm run setup is for first time setup only, please explore other scripts to run the command you need(see documentation).
- if you are facing port is already allocated error, it is most likely you have postgres installed and running with 5433 port, change PSQL_PORT in ./config/dev.env
- to shut down container: npm run xxxx-down (xxx is dev or test or prod)

## Doc

The scripts is extended to 5 parts:

- basic
- jest
- prod
- test
- dev

prod, test and dev are derived from basic script, so that we can standardize how the script run. The scripts are mostly structured in the same way: prod and test scripts have 99% of similarity, the 1% is test-setup will open server endpoint in browser when it is ready (it will fails to open the browser in Ubuntu but it does no harm) while prod-setup will not; dev has slightly more scripts and much loosely structured so that you can develope with more flexible scripts; while jest only has 2 scripts.

Please study ./config/dev.env for better understanding on how environment variable works.

Here is doc for scripts,

    "separator-0": "-----------------------------------------------------basic-----------------------------------------------------------------------",
    "start": "npm run build && Node dist/index.js", build the code and start Node,
    "build": "babel src --out-dir dist --copy-files", build the code,
    "dbuild": "docker-compose build", build the containers,
    "rebuild": "docker-compose build --no-cache", build the containers with no cache,
    "up": "docker-compose up -d", orchestrate the container,
    "tail": "docker-compose up", orchestrate the container with tail logs,
    "deploy": "Prisma deploy", deploy Prisma data model to database,
    "schema": "Prisma generate", generate schema from Prisma for Node,
    "token": "Prisma token", generate Prisma authentication token,
    "volume": "cross-env-shell \"docker volume create $DOCKER_VOLUME\"", create docker volume
    "down": "docker-compose down", shut down containers
    "playground": "cross-env-shell \"./Node_modules/.bin/opn $Node_ENDPOINT\"", open Node endpoint in browser (will fail in Ubuntu but do no harm)
    "wait-Prisma": "cross-env-shell \"sleep 12\"", delay for x seconds
    "separator-1": "-----------------------------------------------------jest------------------------------------------------------------------------",
    "jest": "env-cmd ./.config/jest.env jest --watch --runInBand", build, watch for the change and run the jest in sequence,
    "jest-ci": "env-cmd ./.config/jest.env jest --runInBand", build and run the jest in sequence,
    "separator-2": "-----------------------------------------------------prod------------------------------------------------------------------------",
    "prod-setup": "npm run prod-build && npm run prod-up && Node ./terminalString/mprod.js", build and orchestrate containers
    "prod-start": "npm run wait-Prisma && npm run prod-deploy && env-cmd ./.config/prod.env npm run start", deploy and generate schema, start Node
    "prod-deploy": "env-cmd ./.config/prod.env npm run deploy && npm run prod-schema", deploy and generate schema
    "prod-schema": "env-cmd ./.config/prod.env npm run schema", generate Prisma schema
    "prod-token": "env-cmd ./.config/prod.env npm run token", generate Prisma token
    "prod-build": "env-cmd ./.config/prod.env npm run dbuild", build containers
    "prod-rebuild": "env-cmd ./.config/prod.env npm run rebuild", build containers with no cache
    "prod-up": "env-cmd ./.config/prod.env npm run up", orchestrate containers
    "prod-tail": "env-cmd ./.config/prod.env npm run tail", orchestrate containers with tail logs
    "prod-down": "env-cmd ./.config/prod.env npm run down", shut down containers
    "separator-3": "---------------------------------------------------test---------------------------------------------------------------------------",
    "test-setup": "npm run test-build && npm run test-up && Node ./terminalString/mtest.js && npm run wait-Prisma && env-cmd ./.config/test.env npm run playground", build, orchestrate containers and open Node endpoint in browser
    "test-start": "npm run wait-Prisma && npm run test-deploy && env-cmd ./.config/test.env npm run start", deploy and generate schema, start Node
    "test-deploy": "env-cmd ./.config/test.env npm run deploy && npm run test-schema", deploy and generate schema
    "test-schema": "env-cmd ./.config/test.env npm run schema", generate Prisma schema
    "test-token": "env-cmd ./.config/test.env npm run token", generate Prisma token
    "test-build": "env-cmd ./.config/test.env npm run dbuild", build containers
    "test-rebuild": "env-cmd ./.config/test.env npm run rebuild", build containers with no cache
    "test-up": "env-cmd ./.config/test.env npm run up", orchestrate containers
    "test-tail": "env-cmd ./.config/test.env npm run tail", orchestrate containers with tail logs
    "test-down": "env-cmd ./.config/test.env npm run down", shut down containers
    "separator-4": "-------------------------------------------------------dev-------------------------------------------------------------------------",
    "dev-setup": "npm run dev-volume && npm run dev-build && npm run dev-up && cross-env-shell \"sleep 3\" && npm run dev-deploy && concurrently \"npm run dev-start\" \"npm run dev-browse\"", create volume, build container, orchestrate containers and open Node endpoint in browser
    "dev-ready": "concurrently \"npm run dev-up\" \"npm run dev-start\" \"npm run dev-browse\"", orchestrate containers, start Node and open browser in parallel
    "dev-start": "env-cmd ./.config/dev.env npm start", start Node
    "dev-browse": "cross-env-shell \"sleep 3\" && Node ./terminalString/mdev.js && cross-env-shell \"sleep 5\" && env-cmd ./.config/dev.env npm run playground", open Node endpoint in browser
    "dev-Nodemon": "env-cmd ./.config/dev.env Nodemon src/index.js --ext js,graphql --exec babel-Node", start Node in Nodemon with babel, watch js and graphql file change
    "dev-deploy": "env-cmd ./.config/dev.env npm run deploy && npm run dev-schema", deploy and generate schema
    "dev-schema": "env-cmd ./.config/dev.env npm run schema", generate Prisma schema
    "dev-token": "env-cmd ./.config/dev.env npm run token", generate Prisma token
    "dev-volume": "env-cmd ./.config/dev.env npm run volume", create volume
    "dev-build": "env-cmd ./.config/dev.env docker-compose -f ./docker-compose-dev.yml build", build containers
    "dev-rebuild": "env-cmd ./.config/dev.env docker-compose -f ./docker-compose-dev.yml build --no-cache", build containers with no cache
    "dev-up": "env-cmd ./.config/dev.env docker-compose -f ./docker-compose-dev.yml up -d", orchestrate containers
    "dev-tail": "env-cmd ./.config/dev.env docker-compose -f ./docker-compose-dev.yml up", orchestrate containers with tail logs
    "dev-down": "env-cmd ./.config/dev.env npm run down" shut down containers

## Work in Progress

jest environment

## Acknowledgement

This project is inspired by the authors of existing related project

\_[graphql-boilerplate](https://github.com/andrewjmead/graphql-boilerplate)

\_[create-next-app](https://github.com/segmentio/create-next-app)

Commit message:

add more quick guides in readme

README.md, after:

# Create Prisma App

To install:

```
npm i -g create-prisma-app
create-prisma-app MyPrismaApp
```

dev environment quick start:

```
1. Window user can skip step 1; Mac user please open ./config.dev.env, change the value of PSQL_HOST to docker.for.mac.localhost
2. Run this in console: npm run dev-setup
```

test environment quick start:

```
1. in ./config.test.env, change the value of PSQL_HOST to some database of third party(aws or heroku)
2. Run this in console: npm run test-setup

```

note that test-start, test-deploy and test-schema doesn't work outside the of the container(remember unlike dev environment, node is running in container)

prod environment quick start:

```
PRISMA_ENDPOINT=http://prisma:41462
PRISMA_DATAMODEL=datamodel-prod.graphql
PRISMA_SECRET=password123
PRISMA_SCHEMA=dist/prodSchema/prisma.graphql
CLIENT_SCHEMA=dist/prodSchema/client.graphql
OUTPUT_FOLDER=../src/prodSchema
JWT_SECRET=thisisasecret
NODE_PORT=4000
NODE_ENDPOINT=http://localhost:4000

# docker variable
PRISMA_PORT=41462
PSQL_HOST=mydb.cxdlzqr3bko8.ap-southeast-1.rds.amazonaws.com
PSQL_PORT=5432
PSQL_DATABASE=mydb
PSQL_USER=tylim
PSQL_PASSWORD=1234567890
PSQL_SSL=true
COMMAND=npm run prod-start

```

use this for the ./config.prod.env, why I didnt upload this? Because you shouldn't upload prod.env to github, even uploading test.env is already arguable.

Prod is very similar to test, so the instructions also similar:

```
1. in ./config.prod.env, change the value of PSQL_HOST to some database of third party(aws or heroku)
2. Run this in console: npm run prod-setup
```

note that prod-start, prod-deploy and prod-schema doesn't work outside the of the container(remember unlike dev environment, node is running in container)

jest environment quick start:

```
1. in ./config/jest.env, change the value of PRISMA_ENDPOINT to match dev or test.
```

important: do not run jest on prod prisma endpoint because jest delete database in the beginning of run!

note: I am yet to polish jest logic, as you can see currently it connects to prisma endpoint not node endpoint, but you can still use it without problem. I am planning to add basic mild test for production in future.

finally:

```
1. whatever configuration you want to do, do it in ./config, read comments in dev.env to have better understanding variables.
2. read the doc of scripts, the scripts may look overwhelming, but it is actually repetitive in pattern, what the scripts do are also very straight forward, they are just like the scripts that you frequently use, just more organized and accessible.
```

## Intro

This package is aim to get you up and running in different environments, in general there are 4 types of environments:

1. dev(dev.env)  
   Ideally dev is an environment that allow us to code and experimenting our thing even without internet. It is an environment that we can carry on planning and creating without relying third party service such as server on AWS, instead we should have a server that we can toy with anytime in our computer.

2. prod(prod.env)  
   Prod is the environment where we want to treat our data, data model and configuration delicately. Imagine if we accidentally deploy our dev data and configuration into prod, that would be hell unleashed.For some cases we can mix up test and dev environments and that is tolerable, but production environment MUST has it own space, this is not an option.

3. test(test.env)  
   Ideally the test environment should be as similar as prod environment as possible so that we can expect the same behavior when we deploy it, do not confuse this with jest.

4. jest(jest.env)  
   Do not confuse this with test, jest has its own environment variables that points to test environment from outside world, in short jest are interaction from real world upon this test environment.

To summarize it:

| Environment | Prisma                      | Node                        | Database(PSQL)     | Justification                                                 |
| ----------- | --------------------------- | --------------------------- | ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------- |
| dev         | dockerized locally          | local                       | dockerized locally | for fast development                                          |
| prod        | dockerized in prod server 1 | dockerized in prod server 1 | prod server 2      | for easy deployment in production                             |
| test        | dockerized in test server 1 | dockerized in test server 1 | test server 2      | to mimic production environment with free to torture database |
| jest        | none                        | none                        | none               | to interact with test environment                             |

As we can see we have 4 environments and setting up all the environments can be very time consuming even for experienced member who just join the team, let alone the beginner. To run the environments, we need to install all kind of software and configuring all of them, imagine all kinds of thing we need to do just to get the code run.

If the environments are too complicated to setup, it take our attention away from REAL engineering problem, I remember in my first job, we spent 80% of the time just to pick up the tool (if you are curious, it was Siemens software and Siemens is infamous for not so user friendly software).

Hence this motivates me to create and maintain well structured boilerplate, so that any newcomer that joins the project can work on the code with minimum configuration. When we creating a boilerplate, alway put the team in mind, even if we are working alone, we also should do this because boilerplate that is convenient for a team definitely convenient for one man army too.

Docker refuses to add s key that allows user chooses to run a service or not because the developers want to uphold some silly engineering principle even though it is a highly requested feature https://github.com/docker/compose/issues/1896, I have no choice but to create a separated docker yml file for dev. Yes we can use --scale service=0 command, but that doesn't stop docker from building the service and building Node every time is not ideal for dev.

## Objective

The objective of this boilerplate is you should able to run it with just installing docker and use npm scripts to run commands.

Prerequisite knowledge:

1. Graphql
2. Prisma library

What you need to have:

1. Docker
2. Kitematic(optional): Docker GUI\*
3. TeamSQL(optional): SQL database GUI\*
4. A PSQL database hosted online(for non-dev environment with default setting)\*\*

\*With or without Kitematic and TeamSQL, we still able to get the app running, but I recommend them because they are powerful utilities.  
\*\*I was unable to docker-compose PSQL and Prisma in Ubuntu(but no problem in Window and Mac). Hence to satisfy all three platforms, I decided to exclude PSQL from docker and this is actually a better decision because having database on the other server add security.

Here is instructions to get running:

1. to get dev up and run: npm run dev-setup\*

with just one script, our dev environment graphql playground automatically open in browser up and running, waiting for us to explore!

We can also npm run test-setup to launch test-environment, it is a docker composed of both Node and Prisma server(wait a little and refresh browser if you see empty page). We need to create the prod.env ourself, it can be easily done by using test.env which is provided as template, please refer to ./config/dev.env for guidelines.

\*for Mac user, please change the value of PSQL_HOST in ./config/dev.env to docker.for.mac.localhost, do note that there is no similar support for Ubuntu(why you want to run dev in Ubuntu anyway?).

This boilerplate also comes with:

1. commit hooked prettier styling
2. Babel env preset
3. basic data model
4. basic schema
5. basic api call
6. basic test
7. basic CircleCI configuration file
8. basic JWT authentication

- npm run setup is for first time setup only, please explore other scripts to run the command you need(see documentation).
- if you are facing port is already allocated error, it is most likely you have postgres installed and running with 5433 port, change PSQL_PORT in ./config/dev.env
- to shut down container: npm run xxxx-down (xxx is dev or test or prod)

## Doc

The scripts is extended to 5 parts:

- basic
- jest
- prod
- test
- dev

prod, test and dev are derived from basic script, so that we can standardize how the script run. The scripts are mostly structured in the same way: prod and test scripts have 99% of similarity, the 1% is test-setup will open server endpoint in browser when it is ready (it will fails to open the browser in Ubuntu but it does no harm) while prod-setup will not; dev has slightly more scripts and much loosely structured so that you can develope with more flexible scripts; while jest only has 2 scripts.

Please study ./config/dev.env for better understanding on how environment variable works.

Here is doc for scripts,

    "separator-0": "-----------------------------------------------------basic-----------------------------------------------------------------------",
    "start": "npm run build && Node dist/index.js", build the code and start Node,
    "build": "babel src --out-dir dist --copy-files", build the code,
    "dbuild": "docker-compose build", build the containers,
    "rebuild": "docker-compose build --no-cache", build the containers with no cache,
    "up": "docker-compose up -d", orchestrate the container,
    "tail": "docker-compose up", orchestrate the container with tail logs,
    "deploy": "Prisma deploy", deploy Prisma data model to database,
    "schema": "Prisma generate", generate schema from Prisma for Node,
    "token": "Prisma token", generate Prisma authentication token,
    "volume": "cross-env-shell \"docker volume create $DOCKER_VOLUME\"", create docker volume
    "down": "docker-compose down", shut down containers
    "playground": "cross-env-shell \"./Node_modules/.bin/opn $Node_ENDPOINT\"", open Node endpoint in browser (will fail in Ubuntu but do no harm)
    "wait-Prisma": "cross-env-shell \"sleep 12\"", delay for x seconds
    "separator-1": "-----------------------------------------------------jest------------------------------------------------------------------------",
    "jest": "env-cmd ./.config/jest.env jest --watch --runInBand", build, watch for the change and run the jest in sequence,
    "jest-ci": "env-cmd ./.config/jest.env jest --runInBand", build and run the jest in sequence,
    "separator-2": "-----------------------------------------------------prod------------------------------------------------------------------------",
    "prod-setup": "npm run prod-build && npm run prod-up && Node ./terminalString/mprod.js", build and orchestrate containers
    "prod-start": "npm run wait-Prisma && npm run prod-deploy && env-cmd ./.config/prod.env npm run start", deploy and generate schema, start Node
    "prod-deploy": "env-cmd ./.config/prod.env npm run deploy && npm run prod-schema", deploy and generate schema
    "prod-schema": "env-cmd ./.config/prod.env npm run schema", generate Prisma schema
    "prod-token": "env-cmd ./.config/prod.env npm run token", generate Prisma token
    "prod-build": "env-cmd ./.config/prod.env npm run dbuild", build containers
    "prod-rebuild": "env-cmd ./.config/prod.env npm run rebuild", build containers with no cache
    "prod-up": "env-cmd ./.config/prod.env npm run up", orchestrate containers
    "prod-tail": "env-cmd ./.config/prod.env npm run tail", orchestrate containers with tail logs
    "prod-down": "env-cmd ./.config/prod.env npm run down", shut down containers
    "separator-3": "---------------------------------------------------test---------------------------------------------------------------------------",
    "test-setup": "npm run test-build && npm run test-up && Node ./terminalString/mtest.js && npm run wait-Prisma && env-cmd ./.config/test.env npm run playground", build, orchestrate containers and open Node endpoint in browser
    "test-start": "npm run wait-Prisma && npm run test-deploy && env-cmd ./.config/test.env npm run start", deploy and generate schema, start Node
    "test-deploy": "env-cmd ./.config/test.env npm run deploy && npm run test-schema", deploy and generate schema
    "test-schema": "env-cmd ./.config/test.env npm run schema", generate Prisma schema
    "test-token": "env-cmd ./.config/test.env npm run token", generate Prisma token
    "test-build": "env-cmd ./.config/test.env npm run dbuild", build containers
    "test-rebuild": "env-cmd ./.config/test.env npm run rebuild", build containers with no cache
    "test-up": "env-cmd ./.config/test.env npm run up", orchestrate containers
    "test-tail": "env-cmd ./.config/test.env npm run tail", orchestrate containers with tail logs
    "test-down": "env-cmd ./.config/test.env npm run down", shut down containers
    "separator-4": "-------------------------------------------------------dev-------------------------------------------------------------------------",
    "dev-setup": "npm run dev-volume && npm run dev-build && npm run dev-up && cross-env-shell \"sleep 3\" && npm run dev-deploy && concurrently \"npm run dev-start\" \"npm run dev-browse\"", create volume, build container, orchestrate containers and open Node endpoint in browser
    "dev-ready": "concurrently \"npm run dev-up\" \"npm run dev-start\" \"npm run dev-browse\"", orchestrate containers, start Node and open browser in parallel
    "dev-start": "env-cmd ./.config/dev.env npm start", start Node
    "dev-browse": "cross-env-shell \"sleep 3\" && Node ./terminalString/mdev.js && cross-env-shell \"sleep 5\" && env-cmd ./.config/dev.env npm run playground", open Node endpoint in browser
    "dev-Nodemon": "env-cmd ./.config/dev.env Nodemon src/index.js --ext js,graphql --exec babel-Node", start Node in Nodemon with babel, watch js and graphql file change
    "dev-deploy": "env-cmd ./.config/dev.env npm run deploy && npm run dev-schema", deploy and generate schema
    "dev-schema": "env-cmd ./.config/dev.env npm run schema", generate Prisma schema
    "dev-token": "env-cmd ./.config/dev.env npm run token", generate Prisma token
    "dev-volume": "env-cmd ./.config/dev.env npm run volume", create volume
    "dev-build": "env-cmd ./.config/dev.env docker-compose -f ./docker-compose-dev.yml build", build containers
    "dev-rebuild": "env-cmd ./.config/dev.env docker-compose -f ./docker-compose-dev.yml build --no-cache", build containers with no cache
    "dev-up": "env-cmd ./.config/dev.env docker-compose -f ./docker-compose-dev.yml up -d", orchestrate containers
    "dev-tail": "env-cmd ./.config/dev.env docker-compose -f ./docker-compose-dev.yml up", orchestrate containers with tail logs
    "dev-down": "env-cmd ./.config/dev.env npm run down" shut down containers

## Work in Progress

jest environment

## Acknowledgement

This project is inspired by the authors of existing related project

\_[graphql-boilerplate](https://github.com/andrewjmead/graphql-boilerplate)

\_[create-next-app](https://github.com/segmentio/create-next-app)
